---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---
###What did you do this past week?
This week we finished IDB3

###What is in your way?
Nothing!

###What will you do next week?
I'm going to focus on my other classes since the lecture portion is over.

This week we finished up IDB3. Due to Paxos and other assignments, I was a bit of an absentee for phase 3, but I still ended up contributing a bit.

My main responsibility was incorporating the another group's API into our webpage. We lucked out and got a group who did games, so I made a list of all of the games which included Pokemon.

Searching wasn't working well, so to get the id's of all of the Pokemon games, I wrote a set of scripts. The script queried their API and found all instances of Pokemon. I would've liked to use Python, but Bash is much friendlier for chaining tools together.

One surprusing issue I ran into was the Same Origin Policy. This is a secruity measure which prevented the javascript running on our site from directly querying their API. There are several hacks to get around this, but we ended up just doing the external query server-side and passing it down. I feel like this violates the client-side nature of React rendering, but I guess it's a concession that must be made for the sake of browser security.


**Tip of the week:** When reviewing for the exam, try writing code! The answer to a question like "What is the order of resolution for this overridden method?" will be much more memorable if you answer it yourself rather than Google/StackOverflow.
