---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---
###What did you do this past week?
This week my partner and I finished up Netflix.

###What is in your way?
There's nothing currently in my way with regards to SWE.

###What will you do next week?
Next week I'll do the week's readings and try to nail all of the quizzes.

This week went fairly smoothly. Netflix took a little bit longer than expected, as projects always seem to, but we were able to finish up without too much crunching.

Python is starting to become my most familiar language. I don't do much coding outside of classes (just C++/Java for competitive programming), so the languages I use in class really stick to me. Last semester, I used Python in two classes, and this semester I'm using it in SWE, Distributed Computing, and Computational Linguistics.

My first language was Java in CS 312, and our curriculum progresses through mostly C-style languages. That's left me mostly thinking and programming in this style, very procedurally, explicit loops, etc. I noticed on Friday that I'm now defaulting to a more Pythonic style of programming. My C++ has a more for-each loops, list-initializations, and less complicated conditionals. I credit a good bit of this shift to our disection of Python in SWE. Thinking about a language piece by piece really makes an imprint.

It's been interesting to see how Python has affected my other languages. Now I'm curious about the benefits I could reap from other languages. One of the things I've heard Haskell users avow is that writing in a pure functional language improves their procedural/object oriented code. Now if only I could find a use for Haskell...


**Tip of the week:** As a vim user, I had to evangelize at some point. It's an intimidating editor, but I think it has some really nice pros:
*  It's ubiquitous. Pretty much any Mac or Linux machine you come across will have some version of vim or vi pre-installed.
*  It runs in the terminal. This means you can easily use it ssh'd into the CS machines or a VM without any trouble.
*  It's *fast*. Operations that are tedious and mouse-heavy in editors like Sublime can be incredibly quick in vim.
Try out the tutorial (just type vimtutor into a command line with vim installed). It's really weird at first, but after a few days when the muscle memory kicks in, it's bliss.
