---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

After literal hours of palm sweat and blood, my blog is finally up and running!

This past week has been mostly reacclimating to the semesterly grind. My biggest accomplishment was probably getting this blog up and running, if only because of all the strife I had trying to run Jekyll locally. My greatest hurdle is, as usual, procrastination. Documenting my progress will hopefully help with that. To that aim, my plan is to finish Project 1 early this week to avoid any last-minute submission woes.

I'm a little ambivalent about this class so far. I took OOP last spring and learned a ton about C++ and software engineering, basically having no prior experience in either. However, I'm coming into SWE with a webdev internship and a Python class under my belt, so I'm not sure I'll be getting as much out of my second Downing class. That being said, I have plenty to learn in the web domain (as trying to wrangle Ruby and Jekyll has painfully shown me), so I definitely won't be leaving empty handed.

Looking back on my previous , it's interesting to see how closely this class emulates industry software development. In my internship, I used a lot of the same practices enforced by the much-bemoaned project specs. Time estimation, issue tracking, test coverage, continuous integration, and even the scrum-style questions we're to answer in these blogs were all familiar sights when I started my internship. Taking another Downing class in the spring is going to be a great way to stay sharp for the summer!

**Tip of the week:** Any project on Github can have its own site on Github Pages. All you have to do is add a gh-pages branch to your repo and add the files you want to serve. They will be served at username.github.io/project-name. Doing this will let you keep your SWE blog separate so that you can use your main Github Pages repo for a personal site or experimentation.
