---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---
###What did you do this past week?
This week we finished up SQL and started learning about refactoring.

###What is in your way?
Paxos... still...

###What will you do next week?
We'll finish up IDB3, the last project of the class!


The refactoring we've covered this week has lead me to reflect on what I've learned in my other classes in UTCS. From basic object oriented Java in 312 and 314 to higher level concepts in Object Oriented Programming and Software Design, I've really covered a lot in my years here. Unlike the first times I was exposed to these concepts, things have come much more quickly this time around, and I feel very prepared to learn new things.

In particular, I'm really glad that I've been exposured to design patterns in OOP and SWD. Patterns like decorate and model, view, controller are ubuquitous throughout webdev. Learning how to pick them out and get them right in the classroom has been a big boon to understanding frameworks that use. When I did Ruby on Rails over the summer, I was able to pick up the hefty framework much more quickly due to prior knowledge of the underlying design patterns invovled. Overall, I'm feeling pretty well-rounded, and I hope this carries forward to my future classes and jobs.


**Tip of the week:** If you're having trouble getting your changes to reflect on your website, try clearing the cache. Chrome makes this easy: open the dev tools, right click on the refresh button, and select "Empty Cache and Hard Reload".
