---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---
###What did you do this past week?
This week we finished Python and took the exam.

###What is in your way?
Two exams in my most difficult classes.

###What will you do next week?
Mostly study for my exams.

The first exam has come and gone. Compared to OOP, it was pretty easy. In the first OOP exam, I didn't even have time to look over all of my answers, whereas the SWE exam took about 30 minutes including looking over.

That being said, I should have studied. I planned to cram before the exam, but I ended up needing to talk to one of my professors during that time. I don't think I missed anything major on the programming portion, but I missed at least one reading question (whose answer was on the other cheat sheet!!!).

We're finally finished with Python. After all the review we've done, I feel very comfortable with the language. On Saturday I pounded out my Computational Linguistics take-home exam in about an hour with a flurry of Python one-liners.

I'm excited for what's to come in this class. I've done some Ruby on Rails and Javascript, but I wouldn't consider myself knowledgable in web development. Maybe in a few months I will!


**Tip of the week:** Setup your remote machines (e.g., the CS machines) to use [public key authentication](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSH/OpenSSH/Keys) for ssh. Doing this will let you ssh and scp without being prompted for a password each time.

This will be expecially useful for the coming projects, as hackers will inevitably try to bruteforce any ssh-enabled web server. Having a long, complex password is less of a hassle when you rarely have to type it!
