---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---
###What did you do this past week?
I finished up Collatz and missed a bunch of class.

###What is in your way?
Getting the hang of balancing my schedule.

###What will you do next week?
I'll aim to get an early start on the second project, but the lion's share of the week will have to go to other classes.



Collatz went pretty smoothly, although there's always a looming dread of some omitted or malformed file surfacing later. No emails yet, so good sign!

Embarrassingly, I only ended up going to SWE once this week. Wednesday my running class ran (ha) late, and Friday my alarm never went off. I have two alarms now and a better sense of time, so lesson hopefully learned. I cann't afford to become complacent or blase about this class. I'm still gunning for rank one!

On top of all that, this past week has been very hectic. My persistant pestering of Dr. Alvisi finally paid off, and I was added to Distributed Computing Honors, a class I'm very excited about! However, this bumps me up to 19 hours for the semester, with big timesinks from Algebraic Structures and Graduate OS. I'm of two minds. I'm taking all cool classes I only dreamt of a year ago, but I'm taking them all at once. This week has taught me that my default doctrine of "do it when it's due" isn't going to cut it for this load, but at least I'm learning this early!

I didn't really have a lot to say about the class this time, but I'll give SWE more love next week when I write about how perfectly everything went.

**Tip of the week:** You can use *git commit --verb* to enter verbose commit mode. This will give you a diff of your pending changes, which helps avoid accidentally committing a bunch of disparate changes at once.
