---
layout: post
title: Week 14
---
###What did you do this past week?
Relaxed! That's a lie. I worked on my other classes.

###What is in your way?
Two presentations tomorrow.

###What will you do next week?
Next week, I'm going to focus on studying for the exam. I did pretty okay on the first exam, but I definitely want to do better on the second one. My strategy for studying will be to go over all of the topics section by section, writing code for things are are uncertain to me. Fortunately, the format of the course schedule and the google doc make this approach incredibly easy to do! My biggest hurdle will be the readings, which I've regretably fallen quite behind on. However, my classes are winding down, so I'll have time to really focus after Monday.

During the presentations, it's cool to see what everyone's been working on all of these weeks. It's always interesting to see to see how different people approached the same general tasks, which techniologies they use, what design decisions they make, what gives them trouble and how they overcome it.

The only downside is that we have to give a presentation, too, heh. I'm not a ~terrible~ public speaker, but there's always that inevitable nervousness whenever I have to speak in front of a large group. Unfortunately, tomorrow I have two presentations, and I'm staying up tonight to finish a project.



**Tip of the week:** For those of you studying late on campus this week, JCL in Jester is open late! You don't have to live on Wendy's!!!
