---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---
###What did you do this past week?
I coded the naive solution to Collatz and got about halfway through the project's requirements list.

###What is in your way?
Initially, the Sphere acceptance issue halted my progress, but now it's the mountain of reading I have due to my other classes.

###What will you do next week?
I'm going to finish up the project early so that I can focus on my other impending assignments for the rest of the week.

This week's lectures were mostly about the basic units of Python programming and the classes' toolset. As expected, there was a lot of overlap between this week and my OOP and Python classes. However, I have re-learned a few things I'd forgotten about Python.

I neglected to do the readings last week, but I won't let that become a habit. It's possible to do fine in most classes without reading, but I'm taking this class for the knowledge not the grade.



**Tip of the week:** Learn the [bash keyboard shortcuts](http://ss64.com/bash/syntax-keyboard.html). When working in the terminal for long periods of time, being able to keep your hands on home row is invaluable. These shortcuts have easily doubled my command efficiency. A few of my favorites are:
* Ctrl-p/Ctrl-n - scroll through command history (same as the up/down arrow keys)
* Ctrl-a/Ctrl-e - jump to the beginning/end of the line (same as home/end keys)
* Ctrl-w - delete entire the word before the cursor
* Ctrl-l - clear the screen (same the clear command)
