---
layout: post
title: Week 15
---
###What did you do this past week?
This week I got the flu and took the SWE final exam.

###What is in your way?
Nothing! I'm done with class an only have one final!

###What will you do next week?
With the final done, SWE has finally come to a close. I think I did alright on the Python and Java portions of the exam, but I was pretty shakey on the SQL and XML bits. Unfortunately, I caught the flu the day before the exam, and it took a pretty big mental toll on me (even forgot to make a cheat sheet :\ ). Regardless, I definitely should have studied more. it goes to show that software engineering is much more than simply knowing a language.

With SWE over I'd like to list out for myself everything I've learned. I already knew Python, but I did learn a couple new things (including the Flask framework) and got a lot of refreshers. I knew Javascript as well, but I learned how to use the React framework and now I have two front-end frameworks under my belt. I didn't know SQL, and now I at least know the basics.

A lot of this class was review for me and I did end up missing a lot of classes (almost miss the 5 absenses letter drop policy forcing me to come). Regardless, I'm definitely glad I took it. I still learned plenty, the things I reviewd are important, and I think after two Downing classes I've developed a lot of good habits!
 
**Tip of the week:** UTCS is having its semesterly Pancakes and Profs dinner tomorrow night at 8pm in the GDC lobby. Stop by to see your professors and enjoy free pancakes!
