---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---
###What did you do this past week?
This week we finished up the first IDB1.

###What is in your way?
I'm about the start Paxos, the hardest Distributed project.

###What will you do next week?
This week we'll probably start refactoring our code for Phase 2

This week we finished Phase I of [our website](http://swecune.com). Getting back into web development was inter, and working on a big project with my friends was actually pretty fun.

Most of my time on the first phase was spent on design. Deciding how the pages should look took a long time, and actually writing the HTML and CSS to make that happen took longer. Why is centering things so hard?! For the net phase, I definitely want to sink my teeth into more of the backend and code-intensive portions of the project.

One moral that this project has really emphasized for me is: don't underestimate design. To get the barebones up, we started with ugly divs in a template that didn't match our theme at all. After we took the time to make a few simple changes to the color scheme, everything looked better. Morale noticeably increased, and it was a lot more fun to work on the site when the results looked good. I've seen this idea popping up in other areas, too, whether it's writeups, lab reports, or even your working environment, good design has a great effect on mood and productivity.


**Tip of the week:**  I've started using [Anki](http://ankisrs.net/) to help with memorization. It's a program often touted by medical students which uses spaced repetition to optimize the memory process. To use it, you plug in a set of facts or concepts you'd like to remember and let Anki schedule quiz sessions. I haven't been using it long, but it's at the very least a good flashcard program that I'd definitely recommend.

