---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---
###What did you do this past week?
This week we started IDB.

###What is in your way?
Nothing at the moment.

###What will you do next week?
I'll be meeting with my group over the break to work on the project.


This week we began digging into the second half of the class: the website project. The first phase is due the Thursday after our break, and work is already underway.

On Wednesday, an engineer from Rackspace gave a presentation on the environment in which we'll be working. Unlike previous semesters, we're going to be using Docker instead of virtual machines. I enjoyed this speaker moreso than the others we've had. The material was focused and well-presented, and I actually learned a good bit about tools we'll be using.

I've been learning a lot about virtual machines in my other classes, so I'm a little bummed that I won't get a chance to see one in action. However, container technology is also really interesting and just might be the future of virtualization.

My goal for this project is to be informed about everything. I'll probably lean towards the backend, but this is a good excuse to learn about the full stack. To that end, I've been looking into tutorials and online courses to complete during the break. If I can get past the learning curves now, the rest should be easy, right?


**Tip of the week:**  To learn flask, I've been using [this tutorial](http://blog.miguelgrinberg.com/post/the-flask-mega-tutorial-part-i-hello-world) linked on the project page. So far, it's pretty good. I'd recommend working through it or finding another that suites your neeeds. Web frameworks are large, and they're hard to truly learn without examples. Not finishing a tutorial early is one the mistakes I made while learning Ruby on Rails.

