---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---
###What did you do this past week?
This week we learned more about databases and worked IDB2.

###What is in your way?
Paxos is still looming, but it'll be over soon.

###What will you do next week?
My classes have finally wound down a bit, so next week I'll be dedicating myself to Paxos.

This week was a bit of a frenzy. We thought we had everything almost finished on Monday, but that turned out to be very wrong. Making paginated tables and sorting out Carina proved to be very non-trivial.

Table pagination seemed like it would be trivial. Simply load some fixed number of rows and slap on a list of pages. However, this doesn't work when you want the columns to be globally sortable. To do this, we had to query all of the data on page load and gracefully manage transitions. This involved a lot of React elements to handle asynchronous loading and dynamic elements. I learned quite a bit coding our tables, and I've been made to appreciate the composability of React.

Our other big scare was getting Carina to work. For some reason, the process we'd been usng stopped working, and my partners who had been handling it spent hours trying to fix the issue. We finally got our website to launch just before the deadline by redoing everything on my laptop (yay Linux!), but it was a close call. This made it clear that we shouldn't have just one or two people who know how a crucial aspect of our site works in the future.


**Tip of the week:** Facebook's [messenger.com](https://messenger.com) has added syntax highlighting for code snippets:
    ```python
    print("hello, word!")
will format your code using Python syntax highlighting!
