---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---
###What did you do this past week?
This week we learned more about databases and worked on IDB2.

###What is in your way?
Paxos and Advanced OS. The last OS lab is running me ragged (after this post I'll be running back to work on it). Once I'm finished, I'll be starting Paxos in Distributed. It's becoming very hard to find enough time to do everything. I've missed a few more classes due to the mounds.

###What will you do next week?
This week my group will be finishing up Phase I of our website. The database and API are up and running, so all we have left to do is hook things up and add pagination. Due to my other classes, I haven't has as large of a hand in this phase as I have in the past. I did, however, manager to get started with React.

My heart will always be with backend, but frontend is an interesting realm as well. It's not just pixel pushing anymore. Frameworks like Ember and Angular have brought a lot more programming out from the backend. React isn't quite as versatile. It's more of a directed tool for creating extensible components, but it offers its own challenges in design and composition.


**Tip of the week:** The [Longhorn Run](http://www.utlonghornrun.com/) is this Saturday! It's easy to let yourself get out of shape in college. I'm definitely not as regular with my routine as I'd like to be. But even a few days a week can make a big difference. I think it's really important to build these habits while young, and it's much easier when you surround yourself with active people!

